
# Trutime


## Team Members

1.Tripti Saloni(2266886)

2.Vidit Upreti (2266729)

3.Arin Katiyar(2266722)

4.Shreyash Singh(2266885)

5.Surbhi Sawan(2266728)


## Objective

Validate current week details from Tru Time


## Detailed Description

1. Navigate to Be. Cognizant Website and capture the user information.

2. Scroll down and select the OneCognizant Button 

3. Search Tru Time in Search bar and click on Tru Time application from search results.

4. Get current week details from Tru Time and compare it with system calendar.

5. Validate whether current date is visible in Tru Time application

6. Validate the Month and the Year displayed 


##  Installation Instructions

• Open Eclipse and go to File > New > Other. In the New Project window, select Maven > Maven Project and click Next.

• In the New Maven Project window, select Create a simple project (skip archetype selection) and click Next.

• In the New Maven Project window, enter the Group Id and Artifact Id for the project. The Group Id is typically the package name for the project, and the Artifact Id is the name of the project. Click Next.

• In the New Maven Project window, select the location where you want to create the project and click Finish.

• Once the project is created, go to the pom.xml file and add the Selenium and TestNG dependencies by adding the following code:

    1. Add Selenium dependency on pom file

    2. Add TestNG plugin in Eclipse

    3. Add TestNG dependency on pom files

• Save the pom.xml file and then right-click on the project in the Project Explorer and select Maven > Update Project. This will download the Selenium and TestNG dependencies and updatethe project.

• To create a Selenium TestNG class, right-click on the project in the Project Explorer and select New > Other. In the New window, select TestNG TestNG Class and click Next.

• In the TestNG Class window, enter the name of the class and select the package where you want to create the class. Click Finish.

• In the Selenium TestNG class, add the TestNG annotations such as @Test, @BeforeClass, @AfterClass, etc. to create the test methods.

• Inside the test methods, create a WebDriver instance and write the Selenium code to interact with the web elements on the page.

• To run the Selenium TestNG tests, right-click on the TestNG class and select Run As > TestNG Test. This will run all the test methods in the class.

 
## Usage

• The purpose of this project is to extract the details displayed on the trutime page and then comparing the values with the system calendar, the project will use web scraping techniques to extract the relevant data from the website's HTML code.

• First, the project will locate the "OneCognizant" section on the Be.Cognizant website and then use the search function to find Trutime application on the search results.

• Next, the project extraacts the list of dates of the current week that are displayed on the page and compare them with the days of the week in the system's calendar.

• Once we have verified the week days we verify the Month and Year present at the top and compare them with system's Month and year.


## Documentation

• src/main/java has the packages baseClass and utilities

    -baseClass package has the BaseClass which contains methods to be performed at the start and the end of suite, test and class for all the test classes.
 
    -pages package which contains test classes like HomePage, LoginPage,TruTimePage classes

    -utilities package has the java class for driver setup and PropertiesFileReader

• src/main/resources folder has the resources used for browser configuration and the I/O files 

    -config.proprties file which contains the name of the browser used to run the tests and the link of the main page of the website namely the baseUrl.

    -Testdata.xlsx file contains the text values that is to be sent as Strings in the sendKeys functions.

• src/test/java folder contains the files associated with testing 

    -allTestPackage which has CucumberRunner and TruTimeTest step definition class 

• src/test/resources has the resources for handling testing
 
    -features folder which contains the TruTime.feature file which has the scenarios and the steps required for running the tests.

    -extent.properties file and extentReport.xml file contains configuration  details of extent reports like theme, protocol, thumbnails, titles etc. which helps to create extent report

• report folder contains

    -automation-report.html is the report generated by using the Extent Reports Cucumber Adapter

    - cucumber-report.html is the report generated by the cucumber itself

• Screenshot folder where the screenshot of failed test cases will be stored
 
• pom.xml contains the dependencies required by the project
 
• testng.xml file is for running the test cases.


## Key Automation Scope

• Handling alert, different browser windows, search option

• Navigating back to home page

• Extract multiple options items & store in collections

• Capture warning message

• Data Driven approach
